- In the previous video,
we established the entire login flow
and we also did an exception handling for that login flow.
Now, when we did the exception handling, if you remember,
we were in the LoginController,
we tried to throw something from there
and the exception handler
was written in the LoginController itself.
However, sometimes you may have a requirement
to apply this exception handler
to all exceptions that occur in any of your controllers.
So what I'm trying to tell you here is
that we may need to set up a global exception handler
for the entire application.
So no matter which controller throws exceptions,
you need to make sure
that the same kind of exception handling mechanism applies.
So that's the demo that we're now going to do.
Let's see the slide for the steps.
You first add a class for the exception handler.
So this is the global exception handler
that we are adding now.
So let's go back to the IDE
and in the exceptions,
let's create a class
and let's say ApplicationExceptionHandler.
Right, because this is for all the exceptions that
will occur in your controllers.
Let's do that.
And once it is done,
you're going to use this annotation of @ControllerAdvice
on the class level.
Let's first annotate that
and then we'll see what that is going to do for us.
This one.
It comes from the org.springframework.web.bind package.
So what this is going to do is
it is going to apply this advice of exception handling
to all the controllers of your application.
That's why it is called controller advice.
And what does it advise here,
the advice is here is exception handling.
So advice is a term that is drawn
from the Spring aspect oriented programming module
and it essentially means a piece of code,
a piece of functionality.
In this case,
the piece of functionality is exception handling
that we want to apply for all the controllers.
Hence, the annotation on line number five.
Now, all we have to do next is
we have to make sure we
write a method for exception handling.
So I'm not going to write it again,
we've already written the LoginController.
Let's just go there.
Copy this.
Come back to ApplicationExceptionHandler and paste it.
But this time,
I'm just going to the sys out
so that we know which one we're called.
So it says "in exception handler of login controller"
so instead of that, I'm just going to say,
"In global exception handler"
so what we try to do here essentially is
that we wrote a global exception handler,
which is now going to apply to all controllers
and to exhibit this demo for the moment,
we are just going to make sure that we command this out
from the login controller,
because we have to make sure that
it is picked up from the ApplicationExceptionHandler.
So let's go to LoginController
and comnand this piece of code.
Lines 28-32.
Let's command this out
so that the global exception handler comes into play.
So we have written a method,
annotated the exception handler annotation
to handle exceptions in the global exception handler,
simulate the exception,
build and run.
So the exception has already been simulated for us
in the LoginController on line 33.
We are still throwing the application exception
so in this case now,
the application exception gets thrown
and the responsibility of handling the exception
will be transferred to the global exception handler.
So let's quickly build this
and see that for ourselves.
So let's open the browser, again.
Let's to home.
Let's go to login.
And again, we're going to enter something
which does not exist.
Yeah, so you still get the error page.
Let's go back and see what happened in the IDE.
You see?
So now we get sys out from the
global exception handler class that we have written.
So that's how you can apply the same exception handler
to all exceptions across the controllers
of your Spring MVC application.
Another thing to note here is,
let's say we had not commanded this out.
Let's say this was enabled.
So now there are two exception handlers.
One is in the specific controller
and one which is in the global exception handler controller.
Which one do you think is going to apply?
Well, the one that is specific to the controller
is going to come into picture.
So even if you have this exception handler
defined at both the places,
this is the one that is definitely going to execute.
It'll take into consideration
the specific handler from the controller class.
So this is how you can handle exceptions.
Please understand we picked up the
exception handler exception resolver implementation
and then we have done the exception handling
for our hplus application.